Add Mid documentation (#416)
TinkoffCreditSystems/tofu: docs/mid.md

---
id: mid
title: Mid
---

## Installation
`"ru.tinkoff" %% "tofu" % tofu-version`  
or as a standalone dependency:   
`"ru.tinkoff" %% "tofu-core-higher-kind" % tofu-version` 

## Assumption

Consider some trait
```scala
trait MyBusinessModule[F[_]]{
  def doBusinessThing(entity: Entity, info: Info): F[Value]
  def undoBusinessThing(entity: Entity): F[Respect]
}
```

> Often `F` presented like some `IO` or any transformer

Reviewer: Shouldn't we add the fact that `F` could some kind of reader too? I feel like this is not being told enough 😞

Author: Added

> But signature doesn't oblige to be strict. Moreover, there are no necessity to use functor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But signature doesn't oblige to be strict. Moreover, there is no necessity to use functor
```

Let's start with an example
```scala
type Pre[F[_], A] = F[Unit]
``` 

> Despite `Pre` has type-parameter, it doesn't put any information to the result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite `Pre` has type-parameter `A`, it doesn't put any information to the result
```

Apply `MyBusinessModule[F[_]]` to `Pre[F[_], *]`
```scala

> // MyBusinessModule[Pre[F, *]]

Reviewer: Why exactly is this commented out?

Author: Fixed it

{
  def doBusinessThing(entity: Entity, info: Info): F[Unit]
  def undoBusinessThing(entity: Entity): F[Unit]
}
```
Only the effect produced without any result. It could be logging, input validation or something like that

Now consider the following type
```scala
type Post[F[_], A] = A => F[Unit]
```
This is contravariant type. The module takes the form
```scala
//MyBusinessModule[Post[F, *]]
{
  def doBusinessThing(entity: Entity, info: Info): Value => F[Unit]
  def undoBusinessThing(entity: Entity): Respect => F[Unit]
}
```

> Having been received the result the new essence could be taken to log or, for example, send the events to kafka

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit misleading 

```suggestion
Such an implementation of a module can express logging or validation of a computation result.
```

Completes the next type
```scala
type Mid[F[_], A] = F[A] => F[A]
``` 
With `Monad[F]` both `Pre` and `Post` can be turned into `Mid`

Applying this to the module
```scala
//MyBusinessModule[Mid[F, *]]
{
  def doBusinessThing(entity: Entity, info: Info): F[Value] => F[Value]
  def undoBusinessThing(entity: Entity): F[Respect] => F[Respect]
}
```

> It is capable of what the previous ones, but also "run" `F` multiple times or not run at all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Mid` provides capabilities of both `Pre` and `Post`, but also allows to "run" `F` multiple times or not to run it at all.
```

> Such middleware can be caching, retrying or another logic, which is not implemented in infrastructure, but demand additional reflection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Such middleware can be caching, retrying or another logic, which is not implemented in infrastructure, but requires additional reflection
```

## Usage

> It turns out enough [ApplyK](https://typelevel.org/cats-tagless/api/cats/tagless/ApplyK.html). Via

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It turns out that [ApplyK](https://typelevel.org/cats-tagless/api/cats/tagless/ApplyK.html) is enough. Via
```

```scala
def map2K[F[_], G[_], H[_]](af: A[F], ag: A[G])(f: Tuple2K[F, G, *]~> H]): A[H]
```

> Possible to compose main and plugin results i.e. origin implementation and addictive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its makes it possible to compose the result of a main computation and the result of a plug-in computation. Hence, we can also compose main module implementation and pluggable one.
```

`map2K` call with `F = F, G = Mid[F, *], H = F` substitute, gives `MyBusinessModule[F]` and plugin `MyBusinessModule[Mid]`

> as `af` and `ag`, only remains to implements `Tuple2K[F, G, *]~> H]` i.e. `[A] (F[A], F[A] => F[A]) => F[A]` or `(fa, f) => f(fa)`

Reviewer 2: This is misleading
